<center><h1><strong>Cody Cox's ePortfolio</strong></h1>

<p>A demonstration of my projects and general experience, also containing the Capstone Project for my Computer Science Degree from Southern New Hampshire University.</p><br>
<li><a href="https://codycox-admin@bitbucket.org/codycox/zooauthenticatorjava.git">Original Zoo Authenticator in Java</a><br>
<li><a href="https://github.com/cohcox/cohcox.github.io/tree/main/ZooAuthenticatorPython">Enhanced Zoo Authenticator in Python</a><br>
<li><a href="https://github.com/cohcox/symboliclink/tree/main/SymbolicLinkSelector">Symbolic Link Selector</a><br>
  
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtu.be/A3h8ZbjaWMA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  
<h2>Professional Self-Assessment</h2>
<p>Throughout my time at both Southern New Hampshire University and my professional career, I have learned a lot. Taking this previous coursework and enhancing it in multiple ways into a fully functional program show cases much of what I have learned throughout my four years at the university and shows my potential in the career field of Computer Science. Throughout the course of this program, I have learned essential aspects of the career, whether it be game development or working with databases. One aspect that I really enjoyed was in a course where I was tasked with development of an application in Java which showcased my favorite albums and artists of all time. The catch was that my classmates and I were creating that application together, which meant we had to utilize version control so each of our contributions migrated well together. If successful, the program would run correctly, and we could all see one another's favorite music. Part of this same class introduced me to the idea of peer code reviews and what could be learned from them. Code review is now likely the biggest part of my development process. I am meticulously testing every function in pieces, then sending those snippets over to other developer friends I have for review, constantly trying to find ways to improve. This also held true for another course I had for game development that operated in much the same way. We utilized Discord to develop a plan, each team member taking on a separate task for development. We developed a fully functional demo of a first-person shooter from the bare-bones planning process all the way to playable (albeit rough) game complete with mechanics, AI, and a beautiful GUI. I gained experience in data mining and also became comfortable with data structures and algorithms. One area was developing an entire application that searched through massive amounts of data stored within a database. This gained me experience in both querying SQL while also learning how linked lists and dictionaries work. There are many ways to sift through massive amounts of information, and my time at the university has taught me lessons in a multitude of things. Both my successes and failures during the last few years have built me into someone who is ready for the development world. Some of those successes and failures come from outside of the classroom, specifically in the job I had with software testing where I was afforded the ability to develop an application for symbolic links. My company had a business problem pertaining to syncing man wearable computers faster. I created a program that automatically zipped up and copied over files and folders for our business needs, complete with a user interface where a user could pick and choose what he/she would like to do. Throughout this process specifically I became used to working with seasoned developers of many different languages, and I got accustomed to being a “junior” while a “senior” sat behind me guiding me. Granted software development wasn’t in my job title, they saw my yearning to learn and let me peel off from my testing duties regularly enough to learn and hone my skills. Security was of the utmost importance during this project, as I oversaw transferring sensitive information over networks. There were administrator capabilities coded in, and only those with an encrypted password were able to utilize all functionality of the program. I have uploaded a link to the program on GitHub, though not the one specifically for the company. It is simply one that I generalized. I believe overall these experiences have melded me for a great introductory role I the software development world. Not the least of those experiences is my submission for my Computer Science capstone.</p>
<p>Speaking of that capstone, let’s go over what exactly that capstone involves. I was tasked with selecting an artifact from a previous course, or multiple artifacts, and then enhancing it/them in three key areas. Those areas are Software Design and Engineering, Data Structures and Algorithms, and Databases. As one can tell, those are three massively important aspects of Computer Science and are meant to showcase a wide display of abilities within the field. Though my initial place involved enhancing two artifacts, I eventually only went with one so I could focus on making it the best possible representation that I could. In an earlier class I developed a Zoo Authenticator project in the Java language. Within that project was password protection and there was logic that inhibited data from falling on unnecessary eyes due to that password protection. Zookeepers could login and only access data that would be relevant to a Zookeeper, then a veterinarian could login and only see their required data. It was really a simple project where I learned mostly how to use Java language. I chose this as my enhancement project because it seemed as though it was a perfect fit to display all the various levels required of me. To showcase Software Development and Engineering I completely reworked the program into the Python language. Every aspect is now in a language that I am a little more comfortable with, but it was interesting taking another language and essentially transcribing it over to another. I initially had plans of adding in a graphic interface, but instead wanted to focus on functionality. A user can login through the command line with a specified password, then depending on that password they can access a .csv file which contains records for either animals or employees. I sectioned off most functionality into different functions as to make things more modular and hopefully more readable. I tried to take time and comment every section as well as I could. Regarding data structures and algorithms, I added in functionality that allows a user to search through the database by name, and then that gets displayed by whoever or whatever the user input. Users can add to and remove from existing records in a customizable fashion. Usernames are searched through the users.csv file to ensure that that username matches up with the password input. The enhancement to databases was used as the basis of this project. Every bit of data for the “Zoo” is encased in a zoodatabase database through MongoDB. With the use of the PyMongo module, queries are used to create, read, and delete records. The entire application runs through this system.</p><br>

  <h2>Artifacts</h2>
  <i>Software Design and Engineering</i>
  <p>There were originally going to be at least two artifacts used for this project, but since that has been replaced with one to showcase all three enhancements. Regarding software design and engineering, the enhancement to the Zoo Authenticator was steeped in functionality and migration. The original application was done in Java and was very limited in scope. The project was reimagined in the Python language, of which I am a bit more comfortable, and the functionality was widened. Though a graphic interface is not included in the final enhancement, the command line does its job well. A user is prompted for a username and password, then depending on if they have access or not, they are then given options of how data can be displayed. That same user can display all data for an animal or employee by searching for a name, display all records within the datasheet, then either insert or delete new employees or animals into the zoo database system. The password protection that is married with usernames is a rudimentary form of security to protect unnecessary information from reaching the eyes of those that do not need to see it. In the future, even after this course I would like to continue forward and develop a graphic interface to be used with this or beef up the password creation and protection. While doing all of this, tidy code and documentation is maintained.</p>
    <i>Data Structures and Algorithms</i>
  <p>The data structures used throughout this project are mainly dictionaries holding key/value pairs of information. All of that is held within a collection within a database. The user can call upon the dictionary to display all the information on the screen, or the user can search through whichever .csv file is accessed by name. In addition to that, a user can append and add in a new record to or remove from a desired dictionary through the queries involved with MongoDB. If these documents had 100 pieces of data, those functions would work in the same way for finding the desired outcome. A search algorithm is used in the initial security check to ensure that the entered username matches with the password that is associated with it within the users.csv file. Admittedly this could be a bit more secure, but I feel this adequately gets the point across for this program.</p>
      <i>Databases</i>
  <p>Databases are what makes this entire program work. The original idea was to simply use SQL, but that was abandoned for MongoDB and the versatility of the PyMongo module. The enhancement was made to make the entire thing operate through a database. One of the first things the application does is set up a MongoClient to access the record base that the zoo runs on. There is a “zoodatabase” database, with collections for administrative, zookeeper, and veterinarian respectively. The authenticator manipulates and reads these files through python modules. A user can create and delete and perform queries on records within each collection. Depending on the login, that restricts which collection is accessed by the user.</p>
  <h2>Narrative</h2>
  <p>The artifact, as stated previously was originally meant as an authentication system for a zoo. Written in Java, it restricted access to various file bases due to job description and what records needed to be displayed to who. This artifact was chosen as I saw the potential for it to be enhanced in various ways. Little did I know that it would eventually be the only artifact as I was able to implement all three enhancements into it. It was all there, the software aspect of simply being a modular program, then having a database to store all the data and using algorithms in order to search that data. I learned an intense amount during the process of enhancing this artifact. I hit a few snags here and there during development, particularly I the form of time management, but I surprised myself with the outcome. I spent a little more time on making a “pretty” interface in the beginning than I should have, as I initially turned in something that had a face but had no substance. Once bailing on the interface all together, I was able to focus more on functionality and making a program. Ultimately, I believe I created something that I can be proud of and honestly may continue developing in the future to practice my skills and try new things. </p>

